DOCS-2113 and DOCS-2114 (#11138)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/settings/_index.md

  text: "Identify Synthetic Bots"
---

On the [Synthetic Monitoring Settings page][1], you can adjust the following settings:

* [Global Variables](#global-variables)
* [Private Locations][2]
* [Default settings](#default-settings)
  * [Default Locations](#default-locations)
  * [APM integration for Browser Tests](#apm-integration-for-browser-tests)

## Global variables

> Global variables can be used in [single][5] and [multistep API tests][link] as well as [browser tests][6] of your test suite. To create a global variable, go to the [Global Variables][7] tab of the **Settings** page, and click **New Global Variable** in the upper right corner.

Reviewer: @alai97 Looks like we're missing a link for multistep API tests in there!

Author: ```suggestion
Global variables can be used in [single][5] and [multistep API tests][12] as well as [browser tests][6] of your test suite. To create a global variable, go to the [Global Variables][7] tab in the **Settings** page, and click **New Global Variable** on the upper right corner.
```

  text: "Identify Synthetic Bots"
---

On the [Synthetic Monitoring Settings page][1], you can adjust the following settings:

* [Global Variables](#global-variables)
* [Private Locations][2]
* [Default settings](#default-settings)
  * [Default Locations](#default-locations)
  * [APM integration for Browser Tests](#apm-integration-for-browser-tests)

By default, only [Admin and Standard users][3] can access the Synthetic Monitoring **Settings** page. 

Enable access to the **Settings** page by creating a new role or modifying a default Datadog role with the corresponding permissions for global variables, private locations, and default settings. For more information about permissions, see [Datadog Role Permissions][4].

## Global variables

<div class="alert alert-warning">

> RBAC restrict access to global variables is currently in beta. To request access, contact <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/">Datadog support</a>.</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RBAC restrict access to global variables is in beta. To request access, contact <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/">Datadog support</a>.</div>
```

Variables are global and can be used by multiple [API tests][5] and [browser tests][6]. 

> To create a new global variable, go to the [Global Variables][7] tab of your **Settings** page, and click **New Global Variable** in the upper right corner of your page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a global variable, go to the [Global Variables][7] tab of the **Settings** page, and click **New Global Variable** in the upper right corner.
```

2. Enter a **Description** for your variable (optional).
3. Select **Tags** to associate with your variable (optional).
4. Enter the **Value** you want to assign to your variable.
5. Enable obfuscation of your variable to hide its value on test results (optional).

> 6. In **Permissions settings**, restrict access to your variable based on roles in your org. For more information about roles, see the [RBAC][1] documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. In **Permissions settings**, restrict access to your variable based on roles in your org. For more information about roles, see the [RBAC documentation][1].
```

{{< /tabs >}}

### Permissions

> By default, only users with the [Datadog Admin and Datadog Standard roles][3] can access the Synthetic Monitoring **Global Variables** page. You can get access to the **Global Variables** page by having your user upgraded to one of these two [default roles][link]. 

Reviewer: Looks like we're missing a link in there as well for default roles

Author: ```suggestion
By default, only users with the [Datadog Admin and Datadog Standard roles][3] can access the Synthetic Monitoring **Global Variables** page. You can get access to the **Global Variables** page by having your user upgraded to one of these two [default roles][13]. 
```

> If you have access to the custom role feature (link to https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/rbac/?tab=datadogapplication#custom-roles), have your user added to a custom role that includes permissions for global variables (`synthetics_global_variable_read` and `synthetics_global_variable_write` permissions). 

Reviewer: Same here, link fix needed

Author: ```suggestion
If you have access to the [custom role feature][14], have your user added to a custom role that includes permissions for global variables (`synthetics_global_variable_read` and `synthetics_global_variable_write` permissions). 
```

#### Restrict access

<div class="alert alert-warning">
RBAC restrict access to global variables is in beta. To request access, contact <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/">Datadog support</a>.</div>

> This features allows you to restrict access to individual global variable based on roles in your org. This results in an additional **Permissions settings** step in the global variable creation flow where you can choose which roles in addition to your user can read and write your global variable.

Author: ```suggestion
You can restrict access to a global variable based on the roles in your organization. When creating a global variable, choose which roles (in addition to your user) can read and write your global variable in **Permissions settings**. 
```

## Default settings

### Default locations

Choose the default locations for your [API test][10], [multistep API test ][11], or [browser test][12] details. Options include all of the available managed locations Datadog offers and the private locations you set up for your account.

### APM integration for browser tests

Allow URLs to add APM integration headers to that URL. Datadog's APM integration headers allow Datadog to link browser tests with APM. 

Define which endpoints should be sent the APM headers by adding a URL into this section.

Use `*` to allow wider domain names. For example, adding `https://*.datadoghq.com/*` allows everything on `https://datadoghq.com/`.

If the endpoint is being traced and allowed, your browser test results are automatically tied to its corresponding trace.

### Permissions

> By default, only users with the [Datadog Admin and Datadog Standard roles][3] can access the Synthetic Monitoring **Default Settings** page. You can get access to the **Default Settings** page by having your user upgraded to one of these two [default roles][link]. 

Reviewer: Missing link on default roles

Author: ```suggestion
By default, only users with the [Datadog Admin and Datadog Standard roles][3] can access the Synthetic Monitoring **Default Settings** page. You can get access to the **Default Settings** page by having your user upgraded to one of these two [default roles][13]. 
```

> If you have access to the custom role feature (link to https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/rbac/?tab=datadogapplication#custom-roles), have your user added to a custom role that includes permissions for default settings (`synthetics_default_settings_read` and `synthetics_default_settings_write` permissions). 

Reviewer: Missing link as well

Author: ```suggestion
If you have access to the [custom role feature][14], have your user added to a custom role that includes permissions for default settings (`synthetics_default_settings_read` and `synthetics_default_settings_write` permissions). 
```

{{< /tabs >}}

## Private locations

Enable read and write permissions with `synthetics_private_location_read` and `synthetics_private_location_write`. Creating and modifying custom roles is an opt-in Enterprise feature. To get this feature enabled on your account, contact [Datadog support][8].

## Default settings

Enable read and write permissions with `synthetics_default_settings_read` and `synthetics_default_settings_write`. Creating and modifying custom roles is an opt-in Enterprise feature. To get this feature enabled on your account, contact [Datadog support][8].

### Default locations

> Choose the default locations for your API and browser tests details. Options include all of the available managed locations Datadog offers and the private locations you set up for your account.

Reviewer: Add links to single, multistep API tests and browser tests?

Author: ```suggestion
Choose the default locations for your [API test][10], [multistep API test ][11], or [browser test][12] details. Options include all of the available managed locations Datadog offers and the private locations you set up for your account.
```

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/synthetics/settings
[2]: /synthetics/private_locations/
[3]: /account_management/users/default_roles/
[4]: /account_management/rbac/permissions/
[5]: /synthetics/api_tests/#use-global-variables
[6]: /synthetics/browser_tests/#use-global-variables
[7]: https://app.datadoghq.com/synthetics/settings/variables
[8]: /help/
[9]: /synthetics/api_tests/
[10]: /synthetics/multistep/

> [11]: /synthetics/browser_tests

Author: ```suggestion
[11]: /synthetics/browser_tests
[12]: /synthetics/multistep#variables
[13]: /account_management/rbac/?tab=datadogapplication#datadog-default-roles
[14]: /account_management/rbac/?tab=datadogapplication#custom-roles
```

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/synthetics/settings
[2]: /synthetics/private_locations/
[3]: /account_management/users/default_roles/
[4]: /account_management/rbac/permissions/
[5]: /synthetics/api_tests/#use-global-variables
[6]: /synthetics/browser_tests/#use-global-variables
[7]: https://app.datadoghq.com/synthetics/settings/variables

> [8]: /help/

Author: ```suggestion
[8]: /help/
[9]: /synthetics/api_tests/
[10]: /synthetics/multistep/
[11]: /synthetics/browser_tests
```
